README.md, before:


Absolutely, Ola 💪🏾 — **PyCharm** is *perfect* for building and running an AI model testing framework!

As a QA Engineer, I prefer PyCharm because it gives you an all-in-one environment for (Data Scientists preference too):
✅ Writing Python scripts (tests, data validation, ML logic)
✅ Running tests via `pytest` or `unittest`
✅ Viewing logs and reports
✅ Managing virtual environments
✅ Integrating Git/GitHub for version control

Below is step-by-step to set it up smoothly 👇🏾

---

## 🧩 1. Create QA Testing Project in PyCharm

### 🪜 Steps

1. **Open PyCharm → New Project**
   * Naming it:
     `AI_Model_Test_Framework`

2. **Interpreter**
   * Choose **New Virtual Environment (venv)** → keep Python 3.x

3. Once the project opens, open the **Terminal** in PyCharm and run:
   ```bash
   pip install pytest scikit-learn pandas numpy evidently joblib
   ```

---

## 🧠 2. Create Folder Structure

In the **Project Explorer**, create below structure:

```
AI_Model_Test_Framework/
│
├── model_training.py
├── test_model.py
└── requirements.txt
```

💡 *(Project2 (AI_Test_framework) contains folders like `data/`, `reports/`, or `utils/` as the framework grows.)*

---

## ⚙️ 3. Add Model Training File

Then run it (right-click → **Run 'model_training'**).
This will save `loan_model.pkl` in project root.

---

## 🧪 4. Create the Test File

Create `test_model.py` and paste the automated tests (functional, performance, bias, drift).

Each test is written as a function starting with `test_`, so PyCharm + pytest will automatically detect and run them.

---

## ▶️ 5. Run the Tests

You can run tests in two ways:

### ✅ Option A — via PyCharm GUI

1. Right-click on the `test_model.py` file
2. Choose **Run 'pytest in test_model'**

A clean green/red report appears inside PyCharm.

### ✅ Option B — via Terminal

Run:

```bash
pytest -v
```

You’ll get detailed logs of all your test cases.

---

## 🧾 6. (Optional) Add a Requirements File

In your `requirements.txt`, add:

```
pytest
pandas
numpy
scikit-learn
evidently
joblib
```

This helps others (or CI/CD) install dependencies easily using:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## ⚡ 7. PyCharm QA Tips

Below is how to make setup more powerful:

* 🔍 **Use pytest plugins** like `pytest-html` for generating test reports:

  ```bash
  pip install pytest-html
  pytest --html=report.html
  ```
* 🧠 **Use Breakpoints** to debug model logic or inspect predictions.
* 🧩 **Use Git integration** in PyCharm to version-control your framework.
* 🚀 **Add Run Configurations** to automatically run tests or model training in one click.

---

## 🧰 Summary

| Step | Action                    | Outcome                           |
| ---- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| 1    | Create project in PyCharm | Isolated testing workspace        |
| 2    | Install dependencies      | Required libraries for AI testing |
| 3    | Add `model_training.py`   | Build and save model              |
| 4    | Add `test_model.py`       | Define QA tests                   |
| 5    | Run pytest                | Execute and validate model        |
| 6    | Optional enhancements     | Reports, Git, CI/CD ready         |

---

Commit message:

Update README for clarity and project description
Revised introduction and improved clarity in the usage of PyCharm for AI model testing.

README.md, after:

This a Prototype Practice AI Model Project - QA Sandbox

As a QA Engineer, I prefer to use PyCharm because it gives you an all-in-one environment for (Data Scientists preference too):
✅ Writing Python scripts (tests, data validation, ML logic)
✅ Running tests via `pytest` or `unittest`
✅ Viewing logs and reports
✅ Managing virtual environments
✅ Integrating Git/GitHub for version control

Below is step-by-step to set it up smoothly 👇🏾

---

## 🧩 1. Create QA Testing Project in PyCharm

### 🪜 Steps

1. **Open PyCharm → New Project**
   * Naming it:
     `AI_Model_Test_Framework`

2. **Interpreter**
   * Choose **New Virtual Environment (venv)** → keep Python 3.x

3. Once the project opens, open the **Terminal** in PyCharm and run:
   ```bash
   pip install pytest scikit-learn pandas numpy evidently joblib
   ```

---

## 🧠 2. Create Folder Structure

In the **Project Explorer**, create below structure:

```
AI_Model_Test_Framework/
│
├── model_training.py
├── test_model.py
└── requirements.txt
```

💡 *(Project2 (AI_Test_framework) contains folders like `data/`, `reports/`, or `utils/` as the framework grows.)*

---

## ⚙️ 3. Add Model Training File

Then run it (right-click → **Run 'model_training'**).
This will save `loan_model.pkl` in project root.

---

## 🧪 4. Create the Test File

Create `test_model.py` and paste the automated tests (functional, performance, bias, drift).

Each test is written as a function starting with `test_`, so PyCharm + pytest will automatically detect and run them.

---

## ▶️ 5. Run the Tests

You can run tests in two ways:

### ✅ Option A — via PyCharm GUI

1. Right-click on the `test_model.py` file
2. Choose **Run 'pytest in test_model'**

A clean green/red report appears inside PyCharm.

### ✅ Option B — via Terminal

Run:

```bash
pytest -v
```

You’ll get detailed logs of all your test cases.

---

## 🧾 6. (Optional) Add a Requirements File

In your `requirements.txt`, add:

```
pytest
pandas
numpy
scikit-learn
evidently
joblib
```

This helps others (or CI/CD) install dependencies easily using:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

---

## ⚡ 7. PyCharm QA Tips

Below is how to make setup more powerful:

* 🔍 **Use pytest plugins** like `pytest-html` for generating test reports:

  ```bash
  pip install pytest-html
  pytest --html=report.html
  ```
* 🧠 **Use Breakpoints** to debug model logic or inspect predictions.
* 🧩 **Use Git integration** in PyCharm to version-control your framework.
* 🚀 **Add Run Configurations** to automatically run tests or model training in one click.

---

## 🧰 Summary

| Step | Action                    | Outcome                           |
| ---- | ------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| 1    | Create project in PyCharm | Isolated testing workspace        |
| 2    | Install dependencies      | Required libraries for AI testing |
| 3    | Add `model_training.py`   | Build and save model              |
| 4    | Add `test_model.py`       | Define QA tests                   |
| 5    | Run pytest                | Execute and validate model        |
| 6    | Optional enhancements     | Reports, Git, CI/CD ready         |

---

How to Run Them All?

To run only model tests:

pytest model_training.py


To run only test_mode tests:

pytest test_model.py

This gives full control over which tests to execute, and the HTML reports will clearly show which category passed or failed.
